okay oh okay okay okay okay so how do i
internalize beliefs that my subconscious
disagrees with okay so you have some
core beliefs about the world right like
you have some beliefs about how stuff
works like psychologically you know what
gets us therapists all hot and bothered
is like oh like I don't love myself it's
like oh yeah that's like that's the kind
of like core belief that people have
right and so someone's asking like
logically sure you can this is the way I
understand that question logically you
can understand that you should love
yourself but you can't change the fact
that you don't love yourself so how do
you change this idea that like you know
you should love yourself you know you
should be your best friend you know you
should treat yourself with respect but
you're unable to so how do you change
that and so I think the the best way to
actually change this is a practice
called yoga nidra which is on our
YouTube which you guys can go back and
watch but this is what I want y'all to
think about for a second so how do we
like learn how does something change
within our mind how do we learn things
so I want you guys to think about if I'm
studying a textbook and I read
everything on the page I don't
necessarily understand I don't
understand the information right like I
can read the information but I don't get
it so just think about this for a second
and then what happens is I read the page
again and I read the page again and the
fourth time I read the page I get it
does everybody understand what I'm
saying so there's a difference between
like reading the information and getting
it so let's just think about that
because like sometimes you read the page
once and you get it so like let just
stop cuz this blows my mind so one day I
was thinking about this as a holy [ __ ]
if I could figure out why sometimes I
can read the page once and get it
and sometimes I read the page ten times
and I don't get it like how the [ __ ]
does that work and if I can figure out
how that works can I create a situation
where I'm reading the page once every
single time and I'm getting it and how
Opie would that be how Opie would it be
to read something and to understand it
every single time
and I actually investigated it and I
figured it out and then thankfully I
went to med school and I studied two
hours a day in med school
no more sometimes I studied more before
a test or over the weekend two hours a
day all of my friends sending five hours
a day seven hours a day eight hours a
day
staying up super late tons of caffeine I
studied two [ __ ] hours a day that's
it and then people say oh you aren't you
so smart man like oh my god you must be
a [ __ ] genius no I'm not a [ __ ]
genius
this is important because you guys have
done it too right you've read a page
you've read a page sometimes and it
sinks in and other times it doesn't sink
in the only difference is I figured out
what the difference between the two is I
figured out why I'm able to have it sink
in and why other times it isn't so now
I'm gonna ask you no no I you guys want
the [ __ ] answer too bad I'm not gonna
I'm not gonna tell you you're gonna
figure it out so I'm gonna ask you guys
what do you think so in what scenario
could I read something ten times and not
understand it you tell me okay so let's
say that I'm in a library and the
library is burning down right so people
are saying distracted okay okay okay
chat calm down
distracted right so like the more like
let's say that I'm studying and I just
got broken up with my like my girlfriend
just dumped me how many times am I gonna
have to read the page to understand it
absolutely so just think about that so
then let's say that so this is what I
did in med school I would wake up at
4:00 4:00 between 4:00 and 4:30 every
day and I would study between like 4:30
and 6:30 or 5:00 and 7:00 did it first
thing in the morning when my mind was
completely clear and I found that that
was when my mind was the most focused
and I would meditate and do yoga in the
morning super focused mind sit down and
study and I found that like 4 a.m.
absolutely 4 a.m. then I would study
whatever I whatever the class was gonna
cover that day I'd go through it before
class and then class became review and
if you guys want to know what's Opie in
school it's having every day's class be
review instead of having a review
session like you guys know how good a
review session is before a test right
imagine every day of class was a review
session becomes easy and then the review
session is like you know when like you
know when you study for a test and
you're like man I wish I could have gone
to like to review sessions like wouldn't
it be cool like imagine how well you
would do on a test if instead of just
having one review session before the
test you had like two review sessions a
week apart like how easy would would
school be be like way easier right so
class became the review session and then
the review session became the second
review session so I did pretty well I
didn't get straight A's in med school I
wasn't at the top of my class but I did
I did good enough right there were some
people who like did amazing like I
wasn't at the top of my class didn't get
like a stellar stop score I mean I got a
good pretty good stuff score but it
wasn't like anything crazy you know if I
wanted to become like an orthopedic
surgeon like it would have been you know
I would have been in the running but it
wouldn't have been like a lock I mean I
had some friends who were just [ __ ]
geniuses so it's all about the state of
mind if you want something to sink into
your mind and plant there and understand
it it's about the state of mind so this
is important so I want you guys to
imagine your mind like a pool of water
that has dirt in it and if you want to
see to the bottom which is what we kind
of think of is the subconscious the more
that the water is moving the more dirt
is going to be started so you need a
still mind so when I get dumped by my
girlfriend or the library's on fire what
is happening in my mind if there's a lot
of activity lot of activity so anything
I try to put in there is not going to
sink in because there's just all this
[ __ ] in the way
so calm the mind and then you can plant
something then you could plant a deep
right sometimes you have a conversation
with someone and you are so tuned in to
that conversation that that experience
[ __ ] sinks in like I remember for me
this is an assembly I remember for me
like an experience that sunk in and I
was like this transformed like the way
that I looked in the world is an F F 2
or F F or Japanese there's this guy
named Cecil and he's a Dark Knight and
he becomes a [ __ ] paladin and that
was like just the coolest thing in the
world in my mind was focused and that
thought that seemed that experience got
planted so deep into my mind it can
never be forgotten
and along with that was like all of this
weird stuff about like salvation and
like you can make it and you can recover
your life and all that [ __ ] started with
a Cecil ff4 Dark Knight right and so
you've got to be focused a focus mind
will lead to change and we can see that
with with um if you guys watch the
interview today like you could tell
after he meditated like it didn't sink
in because he's just got all his
thoughts his thoughts are in the way so
how do you internalize how do you take
the things that you should believe and
get them to a place from where your core
beliefs are so core beliefs are deep
within your mind and so there's a
practice called yoga nidra which calms
the mind on the surface level and then
this is a part of yoga neither that I
haven't taught then you have something
called a Sun cult and like when you do
yoga nidra and you do it well you're
like writing you're like rewriting the
code of your subconscious so this is the
other thing to understand you guys
understand like you have a mind right
and like it sends thoughts up to you
it's just like sends you [ __ ] from time
to time and depending on who you are
those thoughts are different like when
I'm walking down the street I have a
particular desire for something that not
something that someone else won't have
because of what my mind is it's like oh
wow like I smell rosemary that smells
delicious there's some
in my subconscious mind that likes
rosemary other people don't like the
smell of rosemary other people like
lavender other people like patchouli
other people like rose you know there's
there's all kinds of stuff so your mind
sends you all kinds of thoughts like all
the time I know it sounds like super
basic but just stop and think about this
for a second when you're somewhere your
mind is going to be sending you thoughts
that other people aren't gonna have that
means that they're coming from somewhere
it's not like Universal your mind is
specific and it sends you thoughts this
is why people have different complexes
right this is why I like some people get
anxious
some people get depressed some people
get anxious about something some people
get anxious about another thing that's
because it's all coming from somewhere
in your mind so in order to get to that
part of the mind we need it to sink in
so if you calm your mind and then you
tell yourself something it's gonna sink
in and then something cool starts to
happen in the same way that these
negative thoughts about yourself bubble
up to the surface and you have to fight
them good thoughts start to bubble up
when you start to meditate regularly and
use a song called a Sun gulp is kind of
like a it's like a statement that you
make about yourself and you plant it
down there so like just think about this
you have a core belief that makes you
think you're lazy right and so it
bubbles up from the surface from time to
time it's like oh yeah like man I'm lazy
[ __ ] I'm lazy [ __ ] I'm lazy and if we
think about the interview today he has
this thought that I'm in control of
myself I can control my destiny and
there's times that that thought bubbles
up in a positive way and it's actually a
different thought but at times it
bubbles up in a negative way he thinks
that's the same thoughts actually to
stop the thoughts that like oh like I
controlled my destiny therefore I [ __ ]
it up therefore I suck at life or I
control my destiny I can do anything
that I put my mind to life is full of
lava not and greatness right so you do
yoga out there and you plan to suck up
if you if you flatten your mind and you
do a month or a month or is another
example right so you do mantra and then
you plant it deep within your
subconscious and then something really
magical happens I'm a lazy piece of [ __ ]
I'm actually pretty
what I put my mind to becomes automatic
and then change habits it's not about
control
it's not about willpower because right
now you guys are fighting to overcome
that negative thought every time it
comes up you try to push it down every
time it comes up you try to push it down
every time it comes up you try to push
it down instead plant something else
down there plant something inspirational
and you do that with a calm mind because
once the combined is calm just like
you're reading something you can read
something and it sinks in it goes in you
learn that 2+2 ISM is 4 and then when
your mind sees oh 2+2 it bubbled the
answer bubbles up this is important you
don't think about it being for the
answer comes from within it's automatic
it doesn't require effort once you
understand its it's just effort it's
effortless it's not control
so learn how to plant things within
yourself calm your mind and then you can
do a month or you can do a Sun cult and
I think Yoga Nidra is one of the most
potent techniques to get people to a
super calm mind relatively easily and
then you do a Sun cult so after you
enter the state of like neutralness at
the end of the yoga nidra practice you
make a Sun cult for yourself and then
you tell yourself that right so it's
like I deserve to cut myself a break
like that's a good example of a Sun cult
like you have to figure out what the
right Sun cult this for you and then
each time you do that practice that
thought lands into your subconscious and
it grows more and more and more and then
eventually it starts bubbling up and now
we come back to the how why meditate and
how does that make people holy it's
because when you meditate and you
combine it with some of these practice
all you don't have to when you meditate
like you change that subsurface level of
self it's underneath the mind right
because remember meditation is about
shutting off the mind then you can start
writing like you're accessing the source
code right it's like if you hit f11 when
you're looking at a website and you see
all the HTML code and you start editing
[ __ ] over there
meditation lets you edit that [ __ ] on
the side
that's what it does
and so if you want to start changing
your subconscious beliefs
it starts with calming the mind and then
reflecting and then planting and then as
you plant it'll start to bubble up and
then your life is different so people
look at me and they're like oh man like
you guys think I'm happy like I'm happy
most days right look day to day like
today I'm actually having a rough day
this is me on a rough day and I have
rough days too but the difference is
that I've planted [ __ ] in my
subconscious that bubbles up it's like
autopilot it's like it's like a
permanent buff
it's like you have debuffs in your buffs
right so I've had the privilege in the
luck to plant some good things in myself
it's like it's like a food buff but it's
permanent you know like sometimes when
you play an RPG and like I like these
games that do this that you get like
some kind of permanent buff because you
make a choice in the story right and
it's like plus five doll stats because
you consume someone's soul it's like
that's the kind of [ __ ] that I'm talking
about a permanent buff it's not quite
leveling up but it's like a
transformative experience that changes
the person that you are and gives you
like a +5 on liquor it gives you like
10% lifesteal or like +5 on all your
stats or something like that that's what
meditation does so a son gulp is a
particular kind of buff that you get to
choose so like sometimes like you know
when you're when you're playing an RPG
and you like get a boon and they're like
what do you want do you want a +5 to nth
strength kaan Dex magic item like you
get it you get a prize right and so the
son gulp is like the kind of thing that
you want do you want to practice self
forgiveness do you want to practice
motivation do you want to practice
whatever so people are now asking how do
you choose the Sun Cup I think it
requires reflection so you've got to
think about something that it shouldn't
change rapidly so you want to do a Sun
cup like for a year and it should be
something that like you should want to
reinforce so it shouldn't be like
temporary so one example of a Sun cult
that I used with a patient who had
suffered from a lot of trauma is I
deserve to be whole so I think that
worked really well for her you can't
plant good luck for
I haven't figured out how to do that yet
maybe you can that's not the way that I
work I tend to focus on the self so I'm
all about like character creation and
buffing the character good luck is like
is like a server wide thing right good
luck is not something you control
it's not about you so there are people
who do that kind of spirituality it's
just not mine because I don't believe I
don't know I don't trust the server I
trust myself
I trust my stats and I try to buff
myself that's what this is about like
that's like server wide changes like
good luck is like going and editing the
server to like you know make cheap drop
rates or something like that like that's
not I don't know how to do that there is
a way to do that it's not usually how I
work though I do a little bit of that
from time to time that's called Tantra
Tantra is about server changing some
things server-side Yoga is about
changing the character Thunder is about
changing certain things server-side
Tantra could you raise your GPA by a
good song called absolutely I mean I
believe so so and let's just think about
this like that's kind of from a
spiritual perspective but from a
neuroscience perspective we have good
evidence of that right so forget about
all the spiritual stuff because who
knows what the [ __ ] this guy like what
does he know like this is some weird
hokey stuff there's overwhelming
scientific evidence that meditating on a
regular basis which is basically what
I'm telling you to do improves attention
concentration and memory so even if you
don't believe any of the spiritual stuff
if you don't count on any of the
spiritual stuff and when I started I
didn't believe any of this crap either
literally what happened the first year
that I studied yoga and meditation as I
sat down I looked through a bunch of
science and out of all of the practices
that I learned I picked the ones that
had the most scientific evidence to
support them and I said I can meditate
ten different ways I'm gonna pick the
one and like some of them may work some
of them may not work but I'm gonna
choose the ones that have the most
scientific support that's the way that I
did
so I think your GPA is gonna go up if
you meditate on a regular basis but
that's not like some weird like Sun gulp
and subconscious like I'm weird hokey
stuff man like I don't know what this
guy's talking about rely on the science
yeah